
# Introduction

<!-- ### Landscape spatial scale -->

Our understandings of ecological pattern and process are directly linked
to the scale at which they are observed.<sup>1,2</sup> Animals and
landscapes are influenced across scales by higher level processes, such
as climate and productivity,<sup>3</sup> and lower level processes, such
as species interactions and resource availability.<sup>4,5</sup> The
effect of scale has been explicity considered in ecology including in
species distribution,<sup>6</sup> habitat selection<sup>7</sup> and food
webs.<sup>8</sup> Scale can be considered for all measured
quantities<sup>9</sup> including spatial and temporal variables as well
as domain specific variables such as sociality.

<!-- observational scales of landscapes do not necessarily correspond to the "scale of effect" of species-landscape relationships, or the scale at which there is the strongest relationship [@jackson2015]-->

<!-- the scales that influence animals and the patterns of their landscapes may be disjoint [@chave2013].  -->

<!-- observers bias their perspective when selecting a scale,often unknowingly or without considering the implications [@allen2015].  -->

<!-- Spatial scale is a central consideration in the way we understand landscape ecology and animal space use.  -->

<!-- ### Social proximity scale  -->

Sociality, defined simply as the degree of shared space use among
conspecifics,<sup>10</sup> exists across scales. For example, grooming
and mating relationships requires close proximity between conspecifics
and occurs over brief time periods whereas home range overlap occurs
over larger spatial and temporal scales. Shared space is a requirement
for social interaction, however, it remains unclear whether spatial
proximity scales predictably with social interactions.<sup>11,12</sup>
Social scale can be defined as the type of relationship
observed<sup>12</sup> and these relationships can be explicitly defined
and measured in social network analyses.<sup>13</sup>

<!-- ### Regular networks
* SNA significant outcomes
-->

Rooted in mathematical graph theory, animal social networks measure the
relationships of individuals and organization of social
systems.<sup>14–16</sup> Social network analyses provide insight into
mating behaviours, interspecific interactions, and community
structures.<sup>17</sup> The structure of social networks influences
population dynamics and evolutionary processes.<sup>18</sup>
Nevertheless, social network analyses usually only consider a single
measure of sociality, drastically simplifying the complexity of animal
social systems.<sup>19</sup>

<!-- Network theory and social network analysis allows one to scale across dyads, groups, etc from pairwise interactions to social units, networks etc[@krause2009] -->

<!-- infer process from large scale pattern [@krause2009] -->

<!-- ### Multilayer networks
used across disciplines
-->

Multilayer networks explicitly consider social systems across
contexts.<sup>20</sup> They are made up of multiple layers, each
representing types of relationships or individuals, spatial areas and
temporal windows.<sup>21,22</sup> Multilayer networks have been used to
described multidimensional human social systems, complex transportation
networks and the complete neural network of an organism.<sup>23</sup>
Recently, multilayer networks have been highlighted as a way to better
characterize complex social systems in animal behaviour
studies.<sup>19,24</sup>

<!-- For multilayer social networks, three types of scale are relevant: spatial, temporal and social scale. -->

<!-- ### Case study 
deer
fogo caribou
-->

We will use two case studies to explore the sensitivity of multilayer
network measures across scales. One, using a population of caribou
(*Rangifer tarandus*) on Fogo Island, Newfoundland, Canada with seasonal
differences in resource availability and social
association.<sup>25</sup> The second using a small group of white-tailed
deer (*Odocoileus virginianus*) in an urban environment **WHERE XYZ**.
We will manipulate the spatial scale of landscapes, temporal windows of
analysis and social scale of relationships, highlighting the importance
of considering scale in multilayer networks.

# References

<div id="refs" class="references">

<div id="ref-levin1992problem">

**1** Levin, S. A. Ecology 73, 1943–1967 (1992)

</div>

<div id="ref-allen2015">

**2** Allen, T. F. H. *et al.* (Columbia University Press, 2015)

</div>

<div id="ref-field2009">

**3** Field, R. *et al.* Journal of Biogeography 36, 132–147 (2009)

</div>

<div id="ref-legendre1993">

**4** Legendre, P. Ecology 74, 1659–1673 (1993)

</div>

<div id="ref-chave2013">

**5** Chave, J. Ecology Letters 16, 4–16 (2013)

</div>

<div id="ref-elith2009">

**6** Elith, J. *et al.* Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and
Systematics 40, 677–697 (2009)

</div>

<div id="ref-mayor2007">

**7** Mayor, S. J. *et al.* Ecology 88, 1634–1640 (2007)

</div>

<div id="ref-sugihara1989b">

**8** Sugihara, G. *et al.* Science, New Series 245, 48–52 (1989)

</div>

<div id="ref-schneider2009">

**9** Schneider, D. C. (Academic Press, 2009)

</div>

<div id="ref-tinbergen1951">

**10** Tinbergen, N. (1951)

</div>

<div id="ref-castles2014a">

**11** Castles, M. *et al.* Animal Behaviour 96, 59–67 (2014)

</div>

<div id="ref-farine2015a">

**12** Farine, D. Animal Behaviour 104, e1–e5 (2015)

</div>

<div id="ref-farine2015b">

**13** Farine, D. R. *et al.* Journal of Animal Ecology 84, 1144–1163
(2015)

</div>

<div id="ref-krause2009">

**14** Krause, J. *et al.* Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 63,
967–973 (2009)

</div>

<div id="ref-wey2008a">

**15** Wey, T. *et al.* Animal Behaviour 75, 333–344 (2008)

</div>

<div id="ref-croft2008">

**16** Croft, D. P. *et al.* (Princeton University Press, 2008)

</div>

<div id="ref-pinter-wollman2014">

**17** Pinter-Wollman, N. *et al.* Behavioral Ecology 25, 242–255 (2014)

</div>

<div id="ref-kurvers2014">

**18** Kurvers, R. H. J. M. *et al.* Trends in Ecology & Evolution 29,
326–335 (2014)

</div>

<div id="ref-finn2019">

**19** Finn, K. R. *et al.* Animal Behaviour 149, 7–22 (2019)

</div>

<div id="ref-pilosof2017a">

**20** Pilosof, S. *et al.* Nature Ecology & Evolution 1, (2017)

</div>

<div id="ref-kivela2014">

**21** Kivela, M. *et al.* Journal of Complex Networks 2, 203–271 (2014)

</div>

<div id="ref-porter2018a">

**22** Porter, M. A. Notices of the American Mathematical Society 65, 1
(2018)

</div>

<div id="ref-boccaletti2014">

**23** Boccaletti, S. *et al.* Physics Reports 544, 1–122 (2014)

</div>

<div id="ref-silk2018a">

**24** Silk, M. J. *et al.* Trends in Ecology & Evolution 33, 376–378
(2018)

</div>

<div id="ref-peignier2019">

**25** Peignier, M. *et al.* Ecology and Evolution 9, 5133–5145 (2019)

</div>

</div>
